--Where in the World is a Meaningful Relationship?--

Being single in today's society is an interesting roller-coaster.

--What being single means to me--

I've been single for nearly a full year now.  That is rather substantial given that since moving to Arizona in 1996 and then meeting my ex-wife in 1999, I have been in some form of a relationship with gaps no longer than a month.  Why does it matter?  Basically I needed to find myself again.

My desires are constantly stretched like salt-water taffy on a summer day between finding a companion to share my life and experiences with versus enjoying the freedom and direct control that isolation provides.

I feel like those desires are influenced, or at least intensified, by the presumptions that society applies to the "normal" life of a person in which you find a mate.  Loans are easier if you are co-applying.  Taxes are cheaper with larger refunds.  It's nearly a requirement to simply exist by having two incomes, especially if you have any plans for a family.  A single parent could hardly afford to raise another life, let along lift themselves out of the burdens of low-income wages.  The services that do exist to help you find your soul-mate are rooted in greed and money making.  I'm referring to you - online dating sites.  In a world feverishly connecting everything and anything to the cloud, the sites designed to find you a connection fail at a basic level to help.  In fact, online dating sites are tools that players and bad apples use in search of a quick hookup.  They swarm the pools with vicious teeth that turn the water crimson and obscure the view of any healthy fish.

Few avenues encourage you to be single ... at least in the States.  Lodging is normally for multiple people.  When seated, Americans have isolated tables and are usually annoyed if they find themselves too close to their neighbors rather than engaging and interacting with them.  Acknowledging somebody, such as when passing in a hallway, is a huge gamble and odds are against you that the communication will be received happily.

When you are in a relationship, you must be willing to compromise.  The bond will quickly be washed away by the tidal waves of stress and discontent if you fail to do so.   

It's an interesting phenomenon to witness the level of comfort and complaceny that gradually develops between people in a relationship.  Initially, both make efforts to conceal the less-than-attractive attributes about themselves.  Usually that includes anything excessive like cussing, drinking, smoking, or hygiene.  The effort to mask the flaws will also hide other qualities, such as a home-body that makes an effort to adventure out of the house more with their partner when the couple is in it's infancy.

How do you justify being single?